Hello everyone and welcome to the second part of the solution lecture for the linear regression project
.
In part one we got went ahead and got the data explored the data a lot through G-G plot too.
And then we actually went ahead and featured engineered a our data column.
Let's go ahead and start building a linear regression model using L.M. in our studio.
Let's shift our studio and get started.
OK.
Here we are back in our studio.
The very last plot we did that we did talk about a whole lot.
But just briefly went over was this weekend plot.
You should have noticed that the working days have picquet activity during the morning or on Adium and
then right after work at around 5 p.m. and the not not work days where were they working day is equal
to zero.
We have a steady rise and fall for the afternoon which just intuitively makes sense.
Let's go ahead and not worry about these visualizations anymore and start building our model.
We're going to use L-M function to build a model that linear model to try to predict count based solely
on the temperature feature we'll name it temp model.
So as I said in same
builds model and I'm going to start off by saying Tim got model
L.M. and I'm going to try to predict count based off of the temp feature and I own a pass in my bike
data you may be wondering why aren't we splitting the data into a training set and a testing set like
you mentioned in the previous lecture.
The reason for that is because eventually we'll see that because this data has a seasonality to it and
a growing trend a linear regression model isn't actually going to be very helpful here.
And also because it's a time series version of data it doesn't help to randomly select sections of the
data is missing test points and try to predict those missing test points.
We're going to show you what I mean by that.
Imagine that this was our testing data if we're to randomly select points as missing we would grab them
at all random hours of the day and to show you a better example of this.
Let's go back to one of our previous plots where we plotted out all the data based off of that time
which was this one right here for go to zoom in on this since this is time series data.
What we are eventually going to learn is that the linear regression model isn't going to be super use
for this because it has a growing trend and has a seasonality aspect to it and split it up into a training
set and a testing set.
Would it be very helpful because you'll be predicting at points squeezed in between two time points
that you already have training data for which you would really want to do is try to predict future trends
and that doesn't really work well for what we know about linear regression so far.
Later on we'll learn about various other methods that we can use for time series data.
They'll perform a lot better.
For now go ahead and do is just train on everything.
So we're go in and say build the model counts on temp.
So try to count based off of the temperature off of the bike and that's the reason we're not splitting
right now for a training and test and then we're going to go ahead and do is print the summary of the
temp model.
Let's go ahead and run that.
OK we got our summary out.
Let's expand this window a bit to check it out.
Notice we get some residuals here and some coefficients.
What you should have gotten is somewhere around 6 point 0 4 6 2 as the intercept and nine point 7 as
the temperature coefficient and you should have gotten those results because we're not randomly splitting
or anything you're using all the data I'm using.
How can we actually interpret these values.
Well you can do some Wikipedia research reread Eissler or revisit the linear regression electron notebook
for more on how to actually do this interpretation.
But as far as interpreting the intercept that data not just of y value when x is equal to zero thus
it is the estimated number of rentals when the temperature is zero degrees Celsius when the temperatures
zero degrees.
We estimate only 6 count rentals at that temperature.
However we should know it doesn't always make sense to just interpret the intercepts by itself in the
manner just described.
However what makes a little more sense is interpret seeing the temp coefficient.
Beta 1 which is the number eight here.
Nine point one seven.
And that's basically saying it's the change in y divided by the change in x or the slope.
Thus a temperature increase of 1 degree Celsius holding all things equal is associated with a rental
increase in about 9.1 seven bikes as far as our model goes.
However I should note this is not a statement of causation and Beta 1 would be negative if an increase
in temperature was associated with a decrease in rentals.
We want to know now is how many bike rentals would we predict if the temperature was 25 degrees Celsius
.
And we can calculate this in two ways using the values we just got above or using the predictive function
Let me show you how to do this manually with the values above.
Again the question is how many bike rental counts
at 25 degrees C Celsius what we can do is go ahead and say our base intercept six 0.4 six to plus nine
point one seven times the temperature 25 degrees and so we would expect at 25 degrees Celsius somewhere
around the range of 235 bike rental counts.
Given our model that was only trained on temperature the other way to do this would be using the predicts
method.
So I could say something like this I'll say temp test
and set that equal to a data frame.
We'll go in and say temp as just a single value 25 degrees.
So notice if I call temp test loops all it is just a simple data frame one temperature point twenty
five and then I could actually as predict pass in my model the temp model
and then pasand the temp test and it gives you a very similar result.
Two hundred thirty five point three 0 9 7.
Let's go ahead and move along to the final tasks we had to do which was use as apply and as numeric
to change the hour column to a column of numeric values.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We'll say like our air supply
bike hour and then we'll say as gnumeric.
And that just changes that tune as numeric.
I'm going to go ahead and actually put this into my scripts
and this will go under.
Feature engineering as well.
All right.
So we have our bike our fully ready to go and we're going to do is finally build a model that attempts
to predict count based off of the following features season holiday working day weather temp humidity
wind speed and the factor of the hour in order to do this you could either add up all the features or
you can just subtract the ones you don't want from everything else.
Let me show you an example of what I mean we could have either said predict counts from let me go in
and label this just model.
This is not the temperature modeling more but we could have said season plus holiday plus whoops Plus
the holiday Collomb Plus the working day Collomb etc. etc. all the way in so we would have had to fill
in all the columns that we wanted.
Or the faster way to do this is you can say dot for everything and then subtract the columns you don't
want to use this case.
I don't want to use casuals so mindless casual minus.
Registered minus date time minus 8 temp.
Let's go ahead and make sure that works by calling for a summary of the model.
And there we have our model of the summary based off of those values.
Hopefully you're able to figure this out if not the notes had the answer in them.
You can always check those out as well.
We push this up
and check out the summary of our model.
QUESTION Was did the model perform well on this training data.
What do you think about using a linear model on this data.
Well the answer is a linear model like this one we chose which uses less won't be able to take into
account the seasonality of our data it will get thrown off by the growth in our dataset accidentally
attributing it towards the winter season instead of realizing it's just overall demand growing.
Later on we're going to explore other models that will be better fit for this sort of time series data
.
So you should notice that this sort of model doesn't work well given our seasonal and time series data
And if we need a model that can keep this kind of trends into account we'll learn about regression for
us.
Let's go ahead and move along with our understanding of machine learning and start learning about logistic
regression what you can go ahead and do now is check out the train test split methods on this data.
But instead of randomly training and testing splits try to split for future test data and previous data
for training.
And what you mean by that to be take a look at this plot manually split this data into training at test
sets based off some time point.
That means take everything beyond for instance 2012 and set that as test data.
Never seen before that said it as training data.
And check out how that works for you.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
I hope you found this project enjoyable.
It was definitely focused more on exploratory data analysis and actual model building because we're
going to get a lot more practice with building models in our later on through subsequent lectures and
projects hopefully by now you've noticed that the actual building of the model is usually just one line
and is kind of the easiest part of the entire machine learning process.
Okay thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture